# Spelwijze solver

This is a project to solve *Spelwijze*, a Dutch/Flemish spelling game created for newspapers. In this game, the player gets seven letters to make words. Six of the given letters are optional, meaning the player can choose whether or not to use them. However, the seventh letter is mandatory and must always be used.
> [!WARNING]
> This script isn't meant for cheating or advancing your statistics. It is solely intended for research purposes. In that regard, I would advocate to not submit results generated by this script to any Spelwijze game. I find it very exciting to play the game myself and have only written the script out of curiosity - to test weather al the answers could be found by using a complete (I hope) but standard dutch wordlist. 

## Dataset

For now I'm using a [wordlist](https://github.com/OpenTaal/opentaal-wordlist) from [OpenTaal](https://www.opentaal.org/), which seams to be the go to wordlist for Dutch spellchecking in software packages like OnlyOffice etc, So, I think it is pretty complete. I want to preform some test with other lists later to see if better or worse accuracy can be achieved.

## Program Mechanics

I used python to write this script (no time for something cooler c:). It is quite user friendly and does handle some stupid mistakes a user, or me could make. It takes the optional and required letters as a string, which is then converted to a set. Every word in the file gets put into a list. Then, we check if the length of word `n` is greater then 4 and do some filtering to get rid of duplicates (not that interesting IMHO).

Really, the most 'complex' part of this program is checking whether `n` is a subset of the set of usable letters (if you need a [refresher c:](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subset)). If so the word is categorized as 'valid' (see [limitations](#Limitations)). If the filtering is complete validated words are written to an output TXT file.

## Limitations

- One of the major limitations of the approach I have chosen is the [dataset](#Dataset) one uses. Although such limitations aren't desirable, they are also inevitable. Whichever dataset you decide to use (AI-powered or not) will have its limitations.     
- Another limitations comes from Spelewijze's validation method: not every word that the script categorizes as valid is a valid submission for Spelwijze, e.g, proper nouns.

## Applied Laziness

I wrote a script (for Wayland) that can automatically submit the words to Spelwijze. By utilizing a tool like wtype in Wayland or xdotool when using x11.  (If you're interested in this kind of stuff, I am sure you can figure something out that works for you.) C: I'm most likeley the only one who will ever see this. 

First I wanted to go full hacker man and use this [little guy](https://shop.hak5.org/products/usb-rubber-ducky). c:   
